
## requirements.txt

`requirements.txt` is a necessary text file that describes of all of your Dash 
app's Python dependencies. During the deployment process, Dash Enterprise will 
install all of the listed packages. Since it's common to run Dash apps with 
`gunicorn` in your `Procfile`, don't forget to include `gunicorn`!

We recommend including all Python packages and their version numbers inside your 
`requirements.txt`. See https://<your-dash-enterprise-server>/Docs/read-this-first 
for latest version numbers of Dash Enterprise packages.

The packages and version numbers that are currently used in your development environment
can be inspected by running `pip freeze` in your terminal. 
This will include all of the "subdependencies" of the packages that you rely on.
For example, `dash` itself relies on 17 other packages that have their own version numbers.
You may inspect which python packages are currently installed for your app in the App Manager.

If you don't include the subdependencies in your `requirements.txt` file, then 
Dash Enterprise will install the latest versions of these subdependencies when you 
deploy your app for the first time. This could mean that your deployed application 
uses different versions of packages than your development environment which could 
cause unpredictable errors.

Certain versions packages that you install on Windows may not be available on the Linux containers
that Dash Enterprise uses or vice versa. If you run into cross-operating system package issues,
we recommend using Dash Enterprise Workspaces.

Redeploying the application will not reinstall dependencies unless you have changed 
the `requirements.txt` file.

Here is an example of a `requirements.txt` file of an app that uses `dash`, 
`gunicorn`, `pandas`, `dash-design-kit`, and `dash-snapshots`.
This file was generated by running `pip freeze` with an environment that used the 
latest packages available as of December 2020 with Dash Enterprise 4.0.1.

```
amqp==5.0.2
billiard==3.6.3.0
Brotli==1.0.9
celery==5.0.3
certifi==2020.11.8
cffi==1.14.4
chardet==3.0.4
click==7.1.2
click-didyoumean==0.0.3
click-plugins==1.1.1
click-repl==0.1.6
cryptography==3.2.1
dash==1.17.0
dash-core-components==1.13.0
dash-design-kit==1.5.4
dash-enterprise-auth==0.0.4
dash-html-components==1.1.1
dash-renderer==1.8.3
dash-snapshots==1.3.2
dash-table==4.11.0
Flask==1.1.2
Flask-Compress==1.8.0
Flask-SQLAlchemy==2.4.4
future==0.18.2
gunicorn==20.0.4
idna==2.10
importlib-metadata==3.1.1
itsdangerous==1.1.0
Jinja2==2.11.2
kombu==5.0.2
MarkupSafe==1.1.1
numpy==1.19.4
packaging==20.7
pandas==1.1.4
pg8000==1.16.6
plotly==4.13.0
prompt-toolkit==3.0.8
pycparser==2.20
PyJWT==1.7.1
pyOpenSSL==20.0.0
pyparsing==2.4.7
python-dateutil==2.8.1
pytz==2020.4
redis==3.5.3
requests==2.25.0
retrying==1.3.3
scramp==1.2.0
six==1.15.0
SQLAlchemy==1.3.20
urllib3==1.26.2
vine==5.0.0
wcwidth==0.2.5
Werkzeug==1.0.1
zipp==3.4.0
```

You can supply additional options to the top of the file. See 
[Adding Private Packages chapter](/dash-enterprise/private-packages) and the 
official [Pip requirements.txt docs](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/reference/pip_install/#requirements-file-format)
for more details.

---
